#Criteria for Terrain 
 
The goal of this is to develop a clear, concrete list of what learners have to learn in order to succeed in the LG system and in the professional world. 
Comparing terrain elements to these lists gives us criteria to focus our work on the essentials. If a terrain element does not help learners learn one of these skills, it is not essential. If our terrains, in combination, miss one of these elements, they are incomplete. 
One factor is that LG may not provide all of this training directly, but we need to have a plan to connect Learners to ways to gain these skills (eg interview skills). 

##Key Questions:
What do learners need to succeed in the professional world?

What do learners need to succeed in LG? 

Professional success as a software developer means…
Other coders want to work with you
You find your work valuable and sustainable
You are successful at job Interviews
You are perceived as valuable to the business/company you work for
You can create a place of belonging in the industry 
You are always learning. 


Other coders want to work with you
You can collaborate effectively 
Your communication and negotiation are clear 
You can give and receive feedback   
You can work skillfully with conflict
You can work with others to generate inquiry and insights 
You can regulate drama/emotional intensity
You can adapt to your teammates’ work and communication styles 
You can integrate your work with other people’s work
You can discuss their work with them
You can discuss your work with them
You can reliably take on another person’s work with minimum loss in efficiency/progress 
You can make your own unique and valuable contributions to the technical craft of your team
You can function effectively in meetings
You understand meeting processes and can be a useful participant 
You can facilitate a meeting  
You have the ability to learn new info/systems/apps efficiently 
You can research topics you need to learn 
You can make a learning plan 
You can track your learning and make continuous improvements 
You can manage projects and workload
You can concentrate on a specific task
You can budget your time 
You use resources effectively 
You have systems to track your projects and work tasks  
You can convince people that they are better off with you on their team
You can think creatively, laterally and outside the box

2.) You find your work valuable and sustainable

You can find and acquire work that meets your financial needs
You can navigate the industry to find companies that match your values and are financially viable. 
You can analyze when a job/team/company is not a good fit and leave with dignity. 
You can regularly generate your own sense of
Autonomy
Mastery
Purpose
You are clear about your professional vision for the medium term
You can describe why you get up in the morning
You can make career choices and follow through on them
You can manage your work/life balance in ways that keep both thriving

3.) You are successful at job Interviews
You can get a job interview
You can construct a resume/application
You can write a cover letter/email
You can craft a github commit history
You can craft a portfolio of work
You can identify the right positions for you 
You can network your way into the interviews for those positions
You can communicate your problem solving process
on a whiteboard (or pen and paper)
online
over a screenshare
You can solve a coding challenge under pressure/time constraint
You can convince other people that you can fit in with them
You can convince other people that you’re reliable and/or they can trust you with work they are currently doing.
You can negotiate an employment contract
You know how to present yourself well in a professional environment (dress, comportment, speech) 

4.) You are perceived as valuable to the business/company you work for
You can demonstrate your contributions to your boss/co-workers
You can make meaningful contributions to the bottom line 
You can function within work constraints - show up on time
You can identify and describe your contributions to the company’s OKRs, KPIs, or other metrics
You can negotiate regular work reviews
You can maintain a high level of productivity
You can convince your superiors that you are consistently improving/growing your skills
You can describe your company’s fit in its own industry
You can state why your company/org exists


5.) You can create a sense of belonging within the industry of software development 
You can identify and skillfully navigate cultural dynamics relating to race, gender, class, and privilege
You can find peers with which you share a desire to solve the same “technical” challenges
You can find and develop relationships with mentors in your company and industry who will guide you towards a successful career.  
You can successfully impact the culture of an organization for the better.	
You can combine the authentic communication, relationship building, and systemic awareness skills necessary to create belonging in a company.   

6.) You are always learning 
You can identify what you need to learn to advance your career and your effectiveness.
You can find the resources that enable you to consciously increase your rate of learning.
You can make a learning plan tailored to your learning styles, the available resources, and your timeline. 
You can remove obstacles that stand in the way of your advancement both professionally and personally.
Success as a Player at Learners Guild means… 
These are the skills learners need to succeed at Learners Guild that are not included in the professional list. These are skills that may be useful in a professional setting, but not necessary. They are skills that are necessary to succeed in LG. 

You are comfortable with direct communication  -- giving and receiving 

You are both self-directed and able to work in a team. 

You can be successfully challenged to grow professionally and personally.

You cultivate a growth mindset 
You are self-reflective about your learning and your social-emotional skills. 
You can adapt to new challenges 
You can give and receive feedback
You can analyze outcomes for yourself to make meaning of my success or failures
You can fail forward by analyzing failures to find lessons, places for improvement, and possible paths forward

You can mentor others 

You are kind

You can contribute to your team’s collective success 
You can track and positively contribute to your team’s the health, effectiveness, and mood 
You can leverage the advantages and skills of your team members 
You can work with your teammates’ growth edges, learning curves and struggles
You can put your needs and desires aside to help your teammates 
 


Differences between success at LG and Professional Success:

You are self-educated
Are we creating independent learners, or are we creating a new system of learning with a defined structure that replaces existing school structure? 
If we are going to develop self-education training/gaming, it is a Value question that will then have skills that will derive from it. 

Some of the LG skills are included in the “professional world” list, but the emphasis that LG puts on them is so much stronger than the common working world that I think we should mark them clearly. For example, our emphasis on self-reflection and direct communication. 

